# Machine Learning Algorithms
This repository will focus on applying machine learning algorithms to solve problems. To implement these algorithms, Python and its libraries will be utilized. The algorithms that will be explored and applied are the ID3 decision tree algorithm and the Support Vector Machine algorithm. For the ID3 decision tree algorithm, a training dataset and testing dataset will be classified and a training model will be created for the datasets through Python. The datasets will hold the following attributes in addition to the passenger id: Pclass, Name, Sex, Age, SibSp, Parch, Ticket, Fare, Cabin, and Embarked. Any missing values of the attributes will be assigned an “unknown” value. An evaluation will be made on the implementation of the ID3 decision tree algorithm, the total number of nodes and leaf nodes in the tree, and the classification accuracies on the training set and test set.

For the Support Vector Machine algorithm, Python will be utilized to train an SVM to classify handwritten digits. The dataset that will be used will consist of 10,000 samples and will be split up into a training set and test set based on a designated ratio value. The SVM model will be tested using two different SVM Kernels. For each kernel, the SVM will be trained with increasing sizes of the training set and tested with the test set. Accuracies will be recorded for each kernel under these conditions and the implementation process of the SVM algorithm will be described.

### ID3 Decision Tree Algorithm
The implementation of the ID3 decision tree algorithm in Python will begin by loading in the data from the training dataset and test dataset. Any missing values in the datasets will be assigned an “unknown” value and the datasets will be combined. In the combined data, attributes with string values will be replaced with numerical values representing the replaced values. This will assist with training the data. Irrelevant attributes that do not assist with the training will be dropped from the training dataset and test dataset. Next, the features and label are selected by utilizing the “Survived” attribute. The ID3 decision tree is then created with a max depth of 3 for reduced complication of the tree. The decision tree is trained and the predicted result for the test dataset is stored. The total number of nodes and leaf nodes in the tree is calculated and displayed. The total number of nodes calculated is 15 and the total number of leaf nodes is 8.

### Support Vector Machine Algorithm
Next, the implementation of the Support Vector Machine algorithm in Python will begin by loading in the dataset of 10,000 samples. The features and label will be assigned by utilizing the value “7” in the dataset. The dataset will then be split into a training set and test set using the features, label, and an initial test size ratio of 0.10. Two SVM models are created and trained. One model implements a Linear kernel, and the other model implements a Radial Basis Function kernel. The SVM models are trained with increasing sizes of the training set and the predicted result for the test dataset is stored.
